# Inherent Qualities of Blockchain and Varied Implications
**Introduction:**

The fundamentals of blockchain are well understood in the academic community and research has branched into multiple fields, such as supply chain management, healthcare, energy, finance, and other industries with specialized applications. The applications are focused on solving problems characteristically innovated by blockchain’s technological properties. Blockchain is a distributed ledger that is decentralized and distributed (Vergne 1). With a transparent nature, the technology guarantees trust among participants without a trusted intermediary. The state of this technology includes future regulation due to the nature of allowing value and information to cross borders independently (Catalini and Gans 8). The technology is becoming increasingly reliant on traditional systems and Carter and Jeng claim that innovation may be halted by industry concentration. This is in direct opposition to the technology’s original ethos in Nakamoto’s white paper. The value of this technology can be accessed in terms of economic benefits, organizational strengths, and general comparisons to current products and services. An additional perspective is a historical overlook of financial markets detailing how proposed society altering financial innovations follow a path of overexcitement, regulation, and limited growth. To explain the current research landscape, I first outline the basic technical information needed for detailed content, provide multiple perspectives on the key qualities of blockchains along different academic theories, develop a research focus for applications in financial services, and conclude with a historical perspective of innovative financial technologies. I believe Blockchain's inherent qualities need to be widely understood by capital allocators, i.e., regulators, politicians, and business leaders in order derive the immense potential value and innovation from the technology. Taking a balanced approach to the excitement and the reality of the innovations, I aim to provide an overarching picture of Blockchain’s strengths and weaknesses.

**Blockchain Origin:**

Blockchain, Web3, NFTs, Cryptocurrency, Bitcoin, and Ethereum are all loaded terms that are used when describing the combination of technological advancements in cryptography and computation. To simplify the complexity and confusion, it is necessary to describe the main characteristic of these technologies in a framework of ideas. Nakamoto first provides a description of a distributed ledger, a blockchain, stating “without a trusted party, transactions must be publicly announced… a system for participants to agree on a single history of the order in which they were received” (Nakamoto 2). To accomplish that ledger, he describes the implementation of cryptographic hashing using public key encryption (Nakamoto 5). This means individuals will perform transactions and proceed to mathematically sign a string of a characters, public and private keys, for the record. The signed transactions are broadcasted to the network of miners (Nakamoto 3). They are incentivized to process the transaction with a collection of fees from the transactions and currently assign themselves a Bitcoin (Nakamoto 4). To facilitate the transactions miners, mathematically hash, the previous blocks of transaction records to the current batch. This can best be visualized as all the previous records produce a single phrase and then that phrase is included in the new block when processing. Linking all the previous blocks, the record is sequentially built off the longest chain. A further explanation of hashing is where computational effort is needed to find a numerical solution to the current problem. Whoever computes the problem first, in a simplified manner, shares the new state of record. At a high level, Bitcoin is the first implementation of a blockchain.
